The first millennium BC saw a series of empires vying for control of the Near East: the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Persians, and the Greeks of Alexander the Great and his successors. The course will explore the political, social and cultural history of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East under these empires, using evidence drawn from archaeology and ancient texts (in translation).# This seminar examines various examples of creative and poetic non-fiction, pertaining to race and the African American experience. While touching upon historic examples and precedent, emphasis will be on contemporary works, including the genres of poetry, drama, the narrative, the memoir, the travelogue and the personal essay. The course will explore what these works offer to the knowledge, popularization and perception of black history and to the shaping of cultural dialogue on blackness and race. Enrollment limited to 25.#Poetry in service to the community honors a connection between poetry and wisdom, assumes that poetry is a wisdom medium (vehicle, vessel, conveyance) toward more enlightened thinking and practice. In this way, it is also an ideal medium for extending our study and practice beyond Brown, conducting workshops in schools, community centers, youth detention facilities and elsewhere. The class emphasizes community building, in teaching pairs and classes and workshops throughout Providence, in Renga and workshop groups. Poetry is the connective tissue; building relationships is at the heart of the practice. Students will write and teach. Enrollment limited to 16.#Examines international development from an ethnographic perspective, looking critically at issues of poverty and progress from local points of view. Course is organized around the premise that culture is central to understanding processes of development. Broad development themes such as public health, agriculture, democracy, and the environment will be explored through readings representing a wide range of regions and cultures.#This is a topics course, covering a selection of modern applications of probability and statistics in the computational, cognitive, engineering, and neural sciences. The course will be rigorous, but the emphasis will be on application. Topics will likely include: Markov chains and their applications to MCMC computing and hidden Markov models; Dependency graphs and Bayesian networks; parameter estimation and the EM algorithm; Nonparametric statistics ("learning theory"), including consistency, bias/variance tradeoff, and regularization; Gibbs distributions, maximum entropy, and their connections to large deviations. Each topic will be introduced with several lectures on the mathematical underpinnings, and concluded with a computer project, carried out by each student individually, demonstrating the mathematics and the utility of the approach.#Offers comprehensive training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing with grammar review as needed. Broadens students' perspective of Arabic culture with selections from the classical and modern traditions of Arabic writing and various art forms. Five contact hours weekly. Prerequisite: ARAB 0500.#How did the Greeks and Romans perceive and discuss the beautiful and the ugly? The fragrant or malodorous? The ticklish and the tart? These may seem like difficult questions, even bizarre, and yet, in many ways, those past opinions inform our own experience of the world. This course is an exploration, through archaeological and literary primary sources, of the many ways in which ancient men and women interacted through their senses with the world around them and how they reflected upon that interaction.#Over five thousand years ago the first cities emerged in southern Iraq, and around that same time writing was invented, most likely to record the language we now call Sumerian. Even after it was no longer spoken, Sumerian became a powerful conduit for the region's cultural heritage, preserving its literature and religious traditions for millennia. In this course students will learn the fundamentals of Sumerian grammar, develop a basic working vocabulary, and explore the cuneiform script through weekly readings in original texts. Selections will come from royal inscriptions, court cases, myths, magical incantations, and even ancient schoolwork. No prerequisites. Enrollment limited to 20.#Continuation of Semester 1, BEO Capstone I: Organizational Studies Track (BEO 1930A). This course involves the completion of team projects begun in fall semester. WRIT#Lectures and recitation sections explore the mechanisms involved in the principles of macromolecular structure and function, the organization and regulation of pathways for intermediary metabolism, and the transfer of information from genes to proteins. It is expected that students have taken CHEM 0350 or are taking it concurrently.#This course continues to develop and strengthen students' proficiency in the Catalan language. The cultural component plays a central role in these classes, as a means to access diverse uses of the language within a cultural context. Varied cultural sources will be explored, such as Catalan cinema, music, artistic expressions, sociocultural elements and literature. These will play a role in enhancing the student’s confidence in their knowledge of the Catalan language and the context in which it is inserted. Students can expect to develop their language skills further, and to be active agents in their learning process. DVPS LILE#Sequel to CHEM 0330. Investigates the constitution and properties of the different classes of organic compounds, with considerable attention to reaction mechanisms. The laboratory work involves an introduction to microscale preparative and analytical techniques of organic chemistry and the preparation of representative organic compounds. Three hours of lecture and five hours of prelaboratory and laboratory. Prerequisite: CHEM 0330.
Students MUST register for a common meeting, a lecture section, a lab and a conference.
If you previously completed CHEM 0350 laboratory but received a grade of no credit in the course, please register for lab section 11.#A year-long introduction to Standard Chinese (Mandarin). Speaking, reading, writing, and grammar. Five classroom meetings weekly. This is the second half of a year-long course. Students must have taken CHIN 0100 to receive credit for this course. The final grade for this course will become the final grade for CHIN 0100. If CHIN 0100 was taken for credit then this course must be taken for credit; if taken as an audit, this course must also be taken as an audit. Exceptions to this policy must be approved by both the academic department and the Committee on Academic Standing.
#This course examines the way that death and dying were perceived and managed in ancient Roman culture. Primary source readings will include selections from philosophers, poets, inscriptions, and a variety of prose literature (consolations, epistolography, historiography, novels). Secondary literature will focus on demography and social relations, the anthropology of funerary ritual, and material culture, which will be integrated systematically throughout the course, and which will include consideration of artistic representations and iconography, as well the archaeology of Roman mortuary practices.#A survey covering the roles of inherited and environmental determinants of human behavior. Topics include sensation, perception, learning, memory, motivation, emotion, neural processes, language, social development, personality assessment, obedience, interpersonal attraction, and the diagnosis, origins, and treatment of mental illness. Laboratory sections illustrate methodologies used to study these issues. Topic selection varies with instructor.#A continuation of CSCI 0170. Students learn to program in Java while continuing to develop their algorithmic and analytic skills. Emphasis is placed on object-oriented design, imperative programming, and the implementation and use of data structures. Examples are drawn from such areas as databases, strategy games, web programming, graphical user interfaces, route finding, and data compression. Lab work done with the assistance of TAs. Prerequisite: CSCI 0170.#Extensive coverage of economic issues, institutions, and vocabulary, plus an introduction to economic analysis and its application to current social problems. Required for all economics concentrators. Prerequisite for ECON 1110, 1130, 1210 and 1620. Serves as a general course for students who will take no other economics courses and want a broad introduction to the discipline. Weekly one-hour conference required (conferences are not held during the summer session).#Examines a century of efforts to improve schooling in the U.S., from John Dewey to Theodore Sizer and E.D. Hirsch, from "social efficiency" to charter schools and No Child Left Behind. How have these movements been affected by the historical contexts in which they operated? Have they produced any lasting results? How, if at all, should current reform movements be informed by the experiences of the past? Enrollment limited to 40.#Study of the kinematics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. Principles of motion of mechanical systems. Concepts of inertia, work, kinetic energy, linear momentum, angular momentum, and impact. Applications to engineering systems, satellite orbits, harmonic vibrations of one and two degree of freedom systems. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory. Prerequisite: ENGN 0030. Corequisite: MATH 0200 or 0180.#The main goal of this class is to understand the physical principles and processes of the global water cycle. Topics include the climatic importance of water, circulation of atmospheric water vapor, formation of rain and snow, availability of soil water, plant-water relations, mass balance of glaciers, and ongoing and expected changes in the water cycle. Additional goals are to become familiar with the current research literature, to practice clear and concise science writing, and to use simple programming in Python to plot and analyze actual data sets. #Examines the cultural traditions of the urban samurai, the wealthy merchant, and the plebian artisan that emerged in the great metropolises of Edo, Osaka, and Kyoto during the early modern period. Focuses on the efforts of the government to mold certain kinds of cultural development for its own purposes and the efforts of various social groups to redirect those efforts to suit their desires and self-interest.#Project-oriented workshop for writers, visual/sound artists, filmmakers and programmers who wish to explore digital media techniques. No experience working in this field (or with computer programming) required. You'll learn through doing, reading, talking and collaborating on works in various traditions. Enrollment limited to 17. S/NC. 
After registration is completed in the semester prior to the course running, all additional adds to the class will take place based on a lottery held at the first class session.#Three-dimensional analytic geometry. Differential and integral calculus for functions of two or three variables: partial derivatives, multiple integrals, line integrals, Green's Theorem, Stokes' Theorem. Prerequisite: MATH 0100, 0170, or 0190.#A dynamic introductory course on drumming, dancing, and singing of Ghana and the diaspora. Students learn to perform diverse types of African music, including Ewe, Akan, Ga, and Dagomba pieces on drums, bells, and shakers. No prerequisites. May be repeated for credit. Enrollment limited to 15. Instructor permission required.
#An introduction to the principles and phenomena of electricity, magnetism, optics, and the concepts of modern physics. Recommended for those who wish to limit their college physics to two semesters but seek a firm grounding in the subject, including but not limited to those with some previous knowledge of physics. Lectures, conferences, and laboratory. Six hours of attendance. Prerequisite: PHYS 0050. Recommended: MATH 0100.#A comparison of women's and men's practices, experiences and beliefs, focusing on patterns observable in a range of religions. Special attention paid to the ways religions participate in diverse constructions of gender (ideas about masculine and feminine), and how these relate to the construction and exercise of power and authority. Specific traditions and historical periods studied vary from year to year. Examples may include: leadership in African American churches; Buddhist monastics; early Christian asceticism; evangelical Christian organizations; medieval and early modern Christian witchcraft accusations; Hindu devotions for husbands and brothers; the turn to orthodoxy among contemporary Jewish women and men; the mosque movement in contemporary Islam; village kamis in Okinawa (Japan); the Shakers, Zar and Bori possession in North Africa and the Caribbean. DVPS LILE WRIT#An introduction to basic visual art concepts, exploring a range of materials with emphasis on experimentation and analysis of visual relationships. Drawing is a vital part of this course. Admittance to this course will be determined by an online lottery, which can be accessed through the VISA 0100 Lottery link in the Student menu in Banner Web. VISA 0100 or 0110 is a prerequisite to any advanced studio course work at Brown or the Rhode Island School of Design. Under certain circumstances a student may petition for a waiver of this requirement upon submission of a portfolio.
